From giant lakes under the ice, to rivers
under legendary cities, here are 8 of the
most mysterious hidden rivers and lakes.
8.
Son Doong Cave
The Son Doong Cave in Vietnam is the world’s
largest cave!!
Translated as “Mountain River Cave” it
was first found by a man named Ho Khanh in
1990.
The farmer was trying to find shelter from
a storm when he notices water gushing out
of the limestone.
He did the responsible thing and notified
the British Caving Research Association!
Now you know what to do if you find something
amazing!
Or you could keep it a secret of course, it
is up to you!
BUT, he kind of got lost in the jungle and
forgot where it was for 18 years!!
He stumbled upon it later and in 2010, the
BCRA went in to explore!
Son Doong Cave is so large, it has its own
ecosystem inside.
It is over five kilometers long (3 miles)
and sometimes reaches heights of 200 meters
(650 feet), that’s tall enough for rain
clouds to form!!
The river inside the cave after which it is
named after, is home to very unique species
and organisms.
The limestone cave is believed to have formed
some 2-5 million years ago when the underwater
river found a fault and carved out the space
over time.
Now thanks to the river, and sunlight that
comes through where the ceiling has collapsed,
the place is full of wildlife.
Explorers and tourists visiting the cave have
said spending the night there is actually
quite noisy!!
One of the most exciting things is the discovery
of previously unidentified species, such as
many insects and birds, and even a new kind
of monkey!.
There is much more of the cave to be explored
which is why many people call this mysterious
place, the lost world.
7.
Black Sea River
The Black Sea itself is located in Eurasia,
between the Mediterranean and Caspian Sea.
These waters were infamous for being inhospitable
and difficult to navigate.
It’s shores were surrounded by savage tribes
and there were scary rumors of beasts in the
water.
However, one of the most intriguing secrets
of this sea is that there is actually a river
underneath it that flows on the sea bed!
This river was discovered by scientists from
the University of Leeds in 2010.
They used a robotic submarine to study a deep
channel.
It has rapids stronger than the Thames and
if it were on land, it would be the world’s
6th largest river.
Maybe the coolest thing is that it even creates
waterfalls, underwater!!
The notion of an underwater river wasn't foreign
to scientists, but the Black Sea River turned
many theories their head.
These underwater channels or rivers are hard
to explore because not only are they usually
very deep, but powerful and unpredictable.
The water that flows in this river is actually
much more salient than most of the water in
the Black Sea.
Since the water is denser and carries sediments
and nutrients into the ocean it is vitally
important to life in the black sea.
Upon further study, it was found that the
Black Sea River not only flows at about 4
miles per hour with 22,000 cubic meters of
water passing through every second, it actually
flows in the opposite direction of most rivers
on Earth when it comes to circling a bend.
Pretty cool to have a river under the sea!!
And now for number 6 but first be sure to
subscribe before you leave and click the notification
bell!
We have lots of new videos coming up!!
6.
Antarctic Lakes
The continent of Antarctica is so inhospitable
and cold that everyone thought the whole place
was just frozen ice.
Then a man named Jonathan Kingslake came along
and changed everything.
I know, perfect name right??
In 2010, he was observing a picture from Google
Earth of the Nielsen Ice Shelf in Antarctica.
When he did, he noticed that there were water
channels that could clearly be seen from the
sky, channels that would only exist if there
was a lake nearby.
The idea of such a "drainage system" in Antarctica
was long thought of as impossible because
of the cold temperatures, but Kingslake’s
discovery prompted a more rigorous search
of Antarctica, and researchers found around
700 different drainage systems throughout
the continent, each of them feeding a lake
in one form or another.
Some of the water even traveled 75 miles in
order to reach its final destination.
Recent inventories have identified 379 lakes
in Antarctica, and we will probably find more.
Now we know that Antarctica has many subglacial
lakes, covered by several kilometers of ice.
Many of them are connected and water flows
from lake to lake.
Finding these systems and lakes has changed
not only how we look at Antarctica, but how
we see the oceans as a whole.
5.
Rivers of London
Did you know that under the streets of London
there were rivers and canals?
In 1827, London wasn't nearly the size it
was now, and instead of Pancras and Euston
Road, there used to be a field where a river
once ran through.
Fast forward to today, and those streets are
made of concrete and stone, but the river
is still there, it's just underground.
Alongside many other rivers that once went
through the London area.
Alex Werner, head of history collections at
the Museum of London says that "Wherever you
live, not far from your doorstep, you can
probably track down a hidden river you never
would have guessed would be there!
This particular river, called The River Fleet,
is one of many rivers that were eventually
"buried" because of the expansion of London.
And while you can go and find these rivers
yourself, you would have to know where to
look, and many people in London right now
have no clue!!
You can see a little piece of it above ground
as it flows under an arched bridge from Hampstead
to Highgate Ponds in north London.
The reason for this is that just like the
city, the rivers of the area have gone through
many phases, including how the people of London
used them.
In the past they were used for drinking and
fishing, but over the centuries, the need
for space was more important than the need
for water.
Some of the areas around the hidden rivers
became harder to maintain, so it was decided
to dam them up and use the land for the growing
population.
Some are actually attempting to bring the
rivers back to the true surface, but efforts
are very slow.
Most of them are now sewers surrounded by
victorian brickwork.
Other rivers that can be found underneath
London include: The Tyburn, The Walbrook,
The Westbourne, and the Effra.
4.
Greenland Rivers
The Nation of Greenland is the largest island
in the world.
3/4ths of its surface mass is covered in ice,
however, underneath that sheet of ice and
glaciers, scientists found a network of rivers
frozen in time.
This river network is remarkably large, and
actually goes through much of Greenland proper,
located underneath the Jakob-shavn Is-brae
glacier.
It's also said that these rivers actually
have helped shape and maintain this glacier
over time.
Michael Cooper from the University of Bristol
in the United Kingdom, told Live Science in
an interview that the channels seem to be
instrumental in controlling the location and
form of the ice stream of the glacier.
Without these channels, the glacier might
not even exist!
Or be in the same place!!
The Jakobshavn Isbrae glacier is actually
the world’s fastest glacier, moving towards
the ocean at a rate of 11 miles per year.
Further study proved that underneath the glacier
is a massive area of canyons, as well as ravines
and streams.
It’s another secret world on Earth!!
Though many of the rivers that are under the
glacier aren't "alive" anymore, some of them
are still going.
3.
Secret Rivers of Estonia
Legends and stories about Estonia’s secret
rivers have been around for centuries.
Animals and sometimes even people, would be
carried underground by the streams.
Estonia is a country in Northern Europe that
borders the Baltic Sea and includes over 1,500
islands.
With thousands of lakes, the water of Estonia
is considered its most valuable natural resource.
Researchers from Tallinn University say that
the secret rivers are true and that there
are probably hundreds of them beneath the
surface of the country.
How is that possible?
Part of the reason is because nearly half
of the mainland is covered with carbonate
rock such as limestone.
Over time the land has been "karsted", or
eroded, making it easy for water to create
fissures and sinkholes.
This in turn both hid and created many of
the secret rivers in the area.
Ones that were on the surface would fall into
sinkholes, and then start flowing underwater.
After further study, The Estonian Book of
Wilderness lists 40 secret rivers with their
starting and ending point, so in case your
cows disappear, you can try to find them before
they get swept away!
2.
Owey Island Lake
The fun part about this place is that it is
a lake, under a lake.
Located in Donegal, Ireland, Owey Island is
a rocky islet with no permanent residents.
On the northwest tip of the island there is
a lake on the cliff tops overlooking the ocean.
So how did people find out there was a lake
underneath it?
There is an extremely muddy sinkhole that
you can climb into that will take you to a
silt beach in a cave.
This lake is about 50 meters underground and
is fed by the Atlantic ocean and lake above
that trickles below.
It is about 150 meters long and ends in a
pool known as the pool of tranquility.
It is quite a magical place!
As you descend into the cavern the walls are
covered with bioluminescent organisms that
will help you find your way, then it is totally
dark.
If you want to check out this place in person,
be sure to check out the company Unique Ascent
because you don’t want to get lost down
there!
And they have great tours!!
1.
Mexican Cenotes
In the Yucatan peninsula there are nearly
7,000 cenotes.
Cenotes are underground caverns formed when
limestone caves in, revealing pools of water
underneath.
Their name comes from the Maya word for well
and most of them were found when people were
wandering around, and then suddenly, the ground
would give way and you’d find yourself falling
and splashing into a pool of water!
They are created by naturally acidic water
filtering through and dissolving limestone.
These mysterious underground pools were believed
by the Maya to be entrances to the underworld
and have enormous sacred significance.
In many there are still sacrificial remains
along with artifacts and stone altars and
stairs.
While most remain officially unexplored, you
can visit and even swim in them to experience
the amazing mysterious places for yourself!
Have you ever been to one?
Let me know in the comments below!
Thanks for watching!
Remember to subscribe before you leave and
I’ll see you soon!
Byeeee!!